README.md, before:

# 🎬 Movie Archive Dashboard

A personal movie archive dashboard that fetches data from Google Sheets and displays it in a beautiful, clean interface.

## Features

- 📊 Fetches movie data directly from Google Sheets
- 🎨 Clean, modern UI with Tailwind CSS
- ✨ Smooth animations with Framer Motion
- 🌙 Dark mode support
- 📱 Fully responsive design
- 🚀 Built with Next.js 14 App Router
- ⚡ TypeScript for type safety
- 🖼️ Movie poster images (from sheet or TMDB)

## Movie Categories

- **Outstanding** - Top-tier movies I'd recommend without hesitation
- **Mediocre** - Watchable but forgettable
- **Shit** - Movies to avoid
- **To Watch/Rewatch** - Movies on my radar

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Google Sheets Configuration

1. Create a Google Sheet with 4 tabs named exactly:
   - `Outstanding`
   - `Mediocre`
   - `Shit`
   - `To Watch`

2. Each tab should have these columns in row 1 (headers):
   - Name
   - Language
   - Year
   - Theme
   - Comment
   - Image (optional - paste image URL here)

3. Make your sheet **publicly viewable**:
   - Click "Share" button
   - Change access to "Anyone with the link can view"
   - Copy the Sheet ID from the URL (the long string between `/d/` and `/edit`)

### 2. Configure the App
Create a `.env` file by copying `.env.example`:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. Update `.env` with your configuration:
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SHEET_ID=your_actual_sheet_id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_TMDB_API_KEY=optional_tmdb_api_key
   ```

3. If your sheet tab names are different, update the `SHEET_RANGES` in `src/lib/sheets.ts`

### 3. Movie Images (Optional)

**Option A: Manual Images (Recommended)**
- Add image URLs directly in the "Image" column (F) of your Google Sheet
- You can get movie poster URLs from:
  - Google Images (copy image URL)
  - TMDB: https://www.themoviedb.org/movie/[id]
  - IMDb, or any other source

**Option B: Auto-fetch from TMDB**
- Sign up for free at https://www.themoviedb.org/settings/api
- Add your API key to `.env`: `NEXT_PUBLIC_TMDB_API_KEY=your_key`
- Leave the Image column empty and the app will auto-fetch posters
- The app searches by movie name, so accuracy depends on exact titles

**Option C: Hybrid (Best of Both)**
- Add URLs manually where you want specific images
- Leave blank for others and TMDB will auto-fill them
- Get the best of both approaches!
3. If your sheet tab names are different, update the `SHEET_RANGES` object

### 3. Install Dependencies

\`\`\`bash
npm install
\`\`\`

### 4. Run Development Server

\`\`\`bash
npm run dev
\`\`\`

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

### 5. Build for Production

\`\`\`bash
npm run build
npm start
\`\`\`

## Deployment on Vercel

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Import your repository on [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
3. Deploy!

The app will rebuild when you trigger a deployment. To get fresh data from your Google Sheet, just redeploy or wait for the next build.

## Project Structure

\`\`\`
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── outstanding/       # Outstanding movies page
│   ├── mediocre/          # Mediocre movies page
│   ├── shit/              # Shit movies page
│   ├── towatch/           # To Watch page
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout with navigation
│   └── page.tsx           # Homepage showing all categories
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── MovieCard.tsx      # Individual movie card
│   ├── MovieList.tsx      # List of movies
│   └── Navigation.tsx     # Navigation bar
├── lib/                   # Utilities
│   └── sheets.ts          # Google Sheets data fetching
└── types/                 # TypeScript types
    └── movie.ts           # Movie type definitions
\`\`\`

## Customization

### Colors & Styling
Edit `src/app/globals.css` or use Tailwind classes in components.

### Animations
Modify Framer Motion settings in `src/components/MovieCard.tsx` and `src/components/Navigation.tsx`.

### Sheet Structure
If you want different columns, update:
1. `Movie` interface in `src/types/movie.ts`
2. Parsing logic in `src/lib/sheets.ts`
3. Display in `src/components/MovieCard.tsx`

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4
- **Animations**: Framer Motion
- **Data Source**: Google Sheets (Visualization API)
- **Movie Images**: TMDB API (optional)
- **Deployment**: Vercel

## Attribution

This project uses **The Movie Database (TMDB) API** for fetching movie poster images and data.

> This product uses the TMDB API but is not endorsed or certified by TMDB.

If you use TMDB data or images in your deployment, please follow their [attribution guidelines](https://www.themoviedb.org/about/logos-attribution). The app includes an attribution footer by default.

### Using TMDB Responsibly

- **Personal Use**: Free tier is perfect for personal projects
- **Attribution**: Always credit TMDB when using their data
- **Logo Usage**: See [TMDB Attribution Guidelines](https://www.themoviedb.org/about/logos-attribution) for proper logo usage
- **API Terms**: Respect their rate limits and terms of service

## Notes

- The app fetches fresh data from Google Sheets on every page load (`revalidate: 0`)
- TMDB image fetching is automatic and optional
- Perfect for personal use and sharing with friends/family
- Includes proper TMDB attribution footer

## License

This is a personal project. Feel free to use it as inspiration for your own!

Commit message:

refactor: enhance TMDB attribution and compliance
Components:
- Improve Attribution footer with prominent TMDB branding
- Add detailed explanation of data source
- Show TMDB link prominently with call-to-action
- Enhance MovieCard with image attribution tooltip
- Display 'Image from TMDB' on hover for all poster images

Documentation:
- Create detailed TMDB_ATTRIBUTION.md guide
- Explain legal requirements and compliance
- Provide instructions for using official TMDB logos
- Include brand guidelines and best practices
- Document commercial use requirements
- Add example implementation code

README Updates:
- Detailed attribution section with checkmarks
- Explain all attribution measures in place
- Link to TMDB's official logos and guidelines
- Document brand guidelines compliance
- Separate personal vs commercial use info

Compliance:
- Ensure full compliance with TMDB terms of use
- Make attribution clear and prominent
- Provide path for users to add official logos
- Document rate limits and API terms
- Include disclaimer about lack of endorsement

README.md, after:

# 🎬 Movie Archive Dashboard

A personal movie archive dashboard that fetches data from Google Sheets and displays it in a beautiful, clean interface.

## Features

- 📊 Fetches movie data directly from Google Sheets
- 🎨 Clean, modern UI with Tailwind CSS
- ✨ Smooth animations with Framer Motion
- 🌙 Dark mode support
- 📱 Fully responsive design
- 🚀 Built with Next.js 14 App Router
- ⚡ TypeScript for type safety
- 🖼️ Movie poster images (from sheet or TMDB)

## Movie Categories

- **Outstanding** - Top-tier movies I'd recommend without hesitation
- **Mediocre** - Watchable but forgettable
- **Shit** - Movies to avoid
- **To Watch/Rewatch** - Movies on my radar

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Google Sheets Configuration

1. Create a Google Sheet with 4 tabs named exactly:
   - `Outstanding`
   - `Mediocre`
   - `Shit`
   - `To Watch`

2. Each tab should have these columns in row 1 (headers):
   - Name
   - Language
   - Year
   - Theme
   - Comment
   - Image (optional - paste image URL here)

3. Make your sheet **publicly viewable**:
   - Click "Share" button
   - Change access to "Anyone with the link can view"
   - Copy the Sheet ID from the URL (the long string between `/d/` and `/edit`)

### 2. Configure the App
Create a `.env` file by copying `.env.example`:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. Update `.env` with your configuration:
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SHEET_ID=your_actual_sheet_id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_TMDB_API_KEY=optional_tmdb_api_key
   ```

3. If your sheet tab names are different, update the `SHEET_RANGES` in `src/lib/sheets.ts`

### 3. Movie Images (Optional)

**Option A: Manual Images (Recommended)**
- Add image URLs directly in the "Image" column (F) of your Google Sheet
- You can get movie poster URLs from:
  - Google Images (copy image URL)
  - TMDB: https://www.themoviedb.org/movie/[id]
  - IMDb, or any other source

**Option B: Auto-fetch from TMDB**
- Sign up for free at https://www.themoviedb.org/settings/api
- Add your API key to `.env`: `NEXT_PUBLIC_TMDB_API_KEY=your_key`
- Leave the Image column empty and the app will auto-fetch posters
- The app searches by movie name, so accuracy depends on exact titles

**Option C: Hybrid (Best of Both)**
- Add URLs manually where you want specific images
- Leave blank for others and TMDB will auto-fill them
- Get the best of both approaches!
3. If your sheet tab names are different, update the `SHEET_RANGES` object

### 3. Install Dependencies

\`\`\`bash
npm install
\`\`\`

### 4. Run Development Server

\`\`\`bash
npm run dev
\`\`\`

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

### 5. Build for Production

\`\`\`bash
npm run build
npm start
\`\`\`

## Deployment on Vercel

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Import your repository on [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
3. Deploy!

The app will rebuild when you trigger a deployment. To get fresh data from your Google Sheet, just redeploy or wait for the next build.

## Project Structure

\`\`\`
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── outstanding/       # Outstanding movies page
│   ├── mediocre/          # Mediocre movies page
│   ├── shit/              # Shit movies page
│   ├── towatch/           # To Watch page
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout with navigation
│   └── page.tsx           # Homepage showing all categories
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── MovieCard.tsx      # Individual movie card
│   ├── MovieList.tsx      # List of movies
│   └── Navigation.tsx     # Navigation bar
├── lib/                   # Utilities
│   └── sheets.ts          # Google Sheets data fetching
└── types/                 # TypeScript types
    └── movie.ts           # Movie type definitions
\`\`\`

## Customization

### Colors & Styling
Edit `src/app/globals.css` or use Tailwind classes in components.

### Animations
Modify Framer Motion settings in `src/components/MovieCard.tsx` and `src/components/Navigation.tsx`.

### Sheet Structure
If you want different columns, update:
1. `Movie` interface in `src/types/movie.ts`
2. Parsing logic in `src/lib/sheets.ts`
3. Display in `src/components/MovieCard.tsx`

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4
- **Animations**: Framer Motion
- **Data Source**: Google Sheets (Visualization API)
- **Movie Images**: TMDB API (optional)
- **Deployment**: Vercel

## Attribution

This project uses **The Movie Database (TMDB) API** for fetching movie poster images and data.

### Required TMDB Attribution

> **This product uses the TMDB API but is not endorsed or certified by TMDB.**

TMDB's terms of use require proper attribution whenever their data or images are used. This project includes:

✅ **Attribution Footer**: Displays on every page with links to TMDB  
✅ **Image Attribution**: Hover tooltip on movie posters showing "Image from TMDB"  
✅ **Clear Disclaimers**: Legal disclaimer that the app is not endorsed by TMDB  
✅ **Link to Guidelines**: Direct link to TMDB's official attribution guidelines  

### TMDB Brand Guidelines

When deploying or modifying this app, follow [TMDB's official attribution guidelines](https://www.themoviedb.org/about/logos-attribution):

- Always credit TMDB as the data source
- Use official TMDB logos if available (get them from the link above)
- Don't imply endorsement by TMDB
- Respect their rate limits and API terms
- Include appropriate disclaimers

### If You Deploy This App

1. Ensure the Attribution footer remains visible
2. Download TMDB logos from their [logos & attribution page](https://www.themoviedb.org/about/logos-attribution)
3. Consider adding the TMDB logo to your deployment
4. Follow their brand guidelines for logo placement and spacing

### API Terms

- **Personal Use**: Free tier is perfect for personal projects
- **Rate Limits**: Respect TMDB's API rate limits (typically 40 requests/10 seconds)
- **Commercial Use**: Contact TMDB for commercial licensing
- **Attribution**: Always required, regardless of use case

## Notes

- The app fetches fresh data from Google Sheets on every page load (`revalidate: 0`)
- TMDB image fetching is automatic and optional
- Perfect for personal use and sharing with friends/family
- Includes proper TMDB attribution footer

## License

This is a personal project. Feel free to use it as inspiration for your own!
